docs(css): FF126 - Support for `shape()` function (#33446)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/basic-shape/index.md

## Syntax

> The `<basic-shape>` data type is defined using one of the basic shape functions described in the sections below. All `<basic-shape>` values use functional notation and are defined using the [value definition syntax](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Value_definition_syntax).

Author: Got it, using your suggestion as is.

> ### Common parameters

Author: Thank you!

- `round <'border-radius'>`

>   - : Defines rounded corners for the inset rectangle using the same syntax as the CSS [`border-radius`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius) shorthand property. This parameter is specified in the `inset()`, `rect()`, and `xywh()` functions.

Author: Done

>   - : Defines rounded corners for the inset rectangle using the same syntax as the CSS [`border-radius`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius) shorthand property. This parameter is specified in the `inset()`, `rect()`, and `xywh()` functions.

Author: I got rid of the last sentence as per https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33446#discussion_r1597739271

>   - : Defines rounded corners for the inset rectangle using the same syntax as the CSS [`border-radius`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius) shorthand property. This parameter is specified in the `inset()`, `rect()`, and `xywh()` functions.

Author: I got rid of the last sentence as per https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33446#discussion_r1597739271

- `<shape-radius>`

>   - : Defines the radius for a circle or an ellipse. The valid values include `<length>`, `<percentage>`, `closest-side` and `farthest-side`. Negative values are invalid. It defaults to `closest-side` if omitted.

Author: > - link first occurrence of length and percentage.

Done

> - other dts code their shapes

What I've now done is added links to the shape sections on the page. For example,
  - : Defines rounded corners for [insets](#inset) and rectangles ([rectangle by distance](#rectangle_by_distance) and [rectangle with dimensions](#rectangle_with_dimensions)) using the same syntax as the CSS [`border-radius`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius) shorthand property.

and 

  - : Defines the radius for a [circle](#circle) or an [ellipse](#ellipse). Valid values include {{cssxref("length")}}, {{cssxref("percentage")}}, `closest-side` (the default), and `farthest-side`. Negative values are invalid.

> - Optionally, reduce verbiage by moving default to parens.

Done

    `closest-side` uses the length from the center of the shape to the closest side of the reference box. For circles, this is the closest side in any dimension. For ellipses, this is the closest side in the radius dimension.

>     `farthest-side` uses the length from the center of the shape to the farthest side of the reference box. For circles, this is the farthest side in any dimension. For ellipses, this is the farthest side in the radius dimension.

Author: Done

- `<position>`

>   - : Defines the center of the shape. It defaults to center of the shape if omitted. This parameter is specified in the `circle()` and `ellipse()` functions.

Author: Thanks! Updated as:

 _- : Defines the center [`<position>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position_value) of a [circle](#circle) or an [ellipse](#ellipse). It defaults to `center` if omitted._

- `<fill-rule>`

>   - : Represents the {{SVGAttr("fill-rule")}} used to determine the interior of the shape. Possible values are `nonzero` and `evenodd`. Default value when omitted is `nonzero`. This parameter is specified in the `polygon()`, `path()`, and `shape()` functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Sets the {{SVGAttr("fill-rule")}}, or filling rule, used to determine how the interior of the shape defined by the `polygon()`, `path()`, and `shape()` functions is to be filled.  Possible values are `nonzero` (the default) and `evenodd`.
```

Author: Fixed with a slight variation, links point to sub-sections in "Syntax":

  _- : Sets the {{SVGAttr("fill-rule")}} that is used to determine how the interior of the shape defined by the basic shapes [polygon](#polygon), [path](#path), and [shape](#shape-experimental_inline) is to be filled. Possible values are `nonzero` (the default) and `evenodd`._

>     > **Note:** `<fill-rule>` is not supported in the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property.

Reviewer: Does it invalidate the entire declaration, or is it just ignored if included. If ignored, I maybe this:

```suggestion
    > **Note:** `<fill-rule>` is supported in the CSS  {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property and SVG `d` attribute but is ignored when passed as a parameter of a shape function within a {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property value.
```

Author: The presence of a `fill-rule` value invalidates the whole declaration:

<img src="https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/23019147/d684c78b-b3a6-40ea-a9a5-0b02757ffda6" alt="offset-path with evenodd fill-rule" />

<img src="https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/23019147/88cdcc3d-e3aa-4572-9098-401f6123d384" alt="offset-path with nonzero fill-rule" />

> ### Inset

Reviewer: We need to add some headings or an intro. Inset seems like a non-sequitor to 

A possible solution would be divide the syntax into two sections: "Common parameters" and "basic shape functions". 
```suggestion
### Basic shape functions

There are seven basic shape functions.

#### Rectangles by container inset
```

Author: Point taken. However:
- I do want to retain the shape sub-sections as H3s (to aid in navigation whenever we get support for H3s in page TOC) as against having them as bullet points or as H4s.
- Since the shape sections are sub-sections in "Syntax", perhaps qualifying the titles with "Syntax for" might add more clarity.

What do you think about:

```
## Syntax
### Common parameters
### Syntax for rectangles by container insets
### Syntax for rectangles by distance
### Syntax for rectangles with dimensions
### Syntax for circles
### Syntax for ellipses
### Syntax for polygons
### Syntax for paths
### Syntax for shapes {{Experimental_Inline}}
```

Additionally, I've updated the "Syntax" intro to:

_The `<basic-shape>` data type is used to create basic shapes including [rectangles by container insets](#syntax_for_rectangles_by_container_insets), [rectangles by distance](#syntax_for_rectangles_by_distance), [rectangles with dimensions](#syntax_for_rectangles_with_dimensions), [circles](#syntax_for_circles), [ellipses](#syntax_for_ellipses), [polygons](#syntax_for_polygons), [paths](#syntax_for_paths), and [shapes](#syntax_for_shapes_experimental_inline). These basic shapes are defined using one of the basic shape functions. All `<basic_shape>` values are CSS functions, with each value requiring a parameter that follows the shape's function-specific syntax._

> The {{cssxref("basic-shape/inset","inset()")}} function defines an inset rectangle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{cssxref("basic-shape/inset","inset()")}} function defines an inset rectangle with the size defined by the offset distance of each side from its container and, optionally, rounded corners.
```

> The {{cssxref("basic-shape/inset","inset()")}} function defines an inset rectangle with its size defined by the offset distance of each side from its container and, optionally, rounded corners.

Author: Good call! I made some changes to use "creates" and adding a comma

```plain
inset( <length-percentage>{1,4} [ round <`border-radius`> ]? )
```

When all of the first four arguments are supplied, they represent the top, right, bottom and left offsets from the reference box inward that define the position of the edges of the inset rectangle. These arguments follow the syntax of the {{cssxref("margin")}} shorthand, which lets you set all four insets with one, two, three, or four values.

A pair of insets in either dimension that add up to more than the used dimension (such as left and right insets of 75% apiece) define a shape enclosing no area. For this specification, this results in an empty float area.

### Syntax for rectangles by distance

> The {{cssxref("basic-shape/rect","rect()")}} function defines a rectangle using the specified distances from the top and left edges of the reference box.

Author: Thanks, just moved the position of optional

```plain
rect( [ <length-percentage> | auto ]{4} [ round <`border-radius`> ]? )
```

> You specify four values to create the rectangle. Each of the four values is either a {{cssxref("length")}}, a {{cssxref("percentage")}}, or the keyword `auto`. When using the `rect()` function, you do not define the width and height of the rectangle. The rectangle's dimensions depend on the size of the reference box and the offset values.

Author: This is excellent, adding more clarity, so including it. Added some edits though.

### Syntax for rectangles with dimensions

> The {{cssxref("basic-shape/xywh","xywh()")}} function defines a rectangle using the specified distances from the top and left edges of the reference box and the specified width and height of the rectangle.

Author: Accepted. Only amended the last "optional" phrase

```plain
xywh( <length-percentage>{2} <length-percentage [0,∞]>{2} [ round <`border-radius`> ]? )
```

### Syntax for circles

The {{cssxref("basic-shape/circle","circle()")}} function defines a circle using a radius and a position.

```plain
circle( <shape-radius>? [ at <position> ]? )
```

> The `<shape-radius>` argument represents the radius of the circle defined as either a {{cssxref("length")}} or a {{cssxref("percentage")}}. A percentage value here is resolved from the used width and height of the reference box as `sqrt(width^2+height^2)/sqrt(2)`. If omitted, the radius is defined by `closest-side`.

Author: The explanation for `closest-side` is included in on the same page under [Common parameters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape#common_parameters). Linking to a different section might change the context for the readers.

### Syntax for ellipses

The {{cssxref("basic-shape/ellipse","ellipse()")}} function defines an ellipse using two radii and a position.

```plain
ellipse( [ <shape-radius>{2} ]? [ at <position> ]? )
```

> The `<shape-radius>` arguments represent rx and ry, the x-axis and y-axis radii of the ellipse, in that order. Percentage values here are resolved against the used width (for the rx value) and the used height (for the ry value) of the reference box.

Author: Thank you

### Syntax for polygons

The {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}} function defines a polygon using an SVG {{SVGAttr("fill-rule")}} and a set of vertices.

```plain
polygon( <fill-rule>? [ <length-percentage> <length-percentage> ]# )
```

> Each `<length-percentage>` pair in the list represents _xi_ and _yi_ - the x and y axis coordinates of the vertex of the polygon at position i.

Author: Makes sense. Further edited to:

> The function takes a list of comma-separated coordinate pairs, each consisting of two space-separated `<length-percentage>` values as the _xi_ and _yi_ pair. These values represents the x and y axis coordinates of the vertex of the polygon at position _i_.

### Syntax for paths

The {{cssxref("basic-shape/path","path()")}} function defines a shape using an SVG {{SVGAttr("fill-rule")}} and an SVG [path definition](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d).

```plain
path( [ <fill-rule>, ]? <string> )
```

> The required `<string>` is an [SVG Path](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d) string encompassed in quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The required `<string>` is a single [SVG Path](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d) string encompassed in quotes with numeric values representing pixel units.
```
More info we may want to include.
we should create an issue about the `path()` page. We don't necessarily need to include this here, but we should include it there:

> While the `path()` function allows reuse of the SVG path syntax to define more arbitrary shapes than allowed by more specialized shape functions, it requires writing a path as a single string (which is not compatible with, for example, building a path piecemeal with `var()` and inherits a number of limitations from SVG, such as implicitly only allowing the `px` unit.

> The function takes a list of comma-separated coordinate pairs, each consisting of two space-separated `<length-percentage>` values as the _xi_ and _yi_ pair. These values represents the x and y axis coordinates of the vertex of the polygon at position _i_.

Author: Updated as:

> These values represent the x and y axis coordinates of the polygon at position _i_ (the vertex point where two lines meet).

### Syntax for shapes {{Experimental_Inline}}

The {{cssxref("basic-shape/shape","shape()")}} function defines a shape using an initial starting point and a series of shape commands.

```plain
shape( <fill-rule>? from <coordinate-pair>, <shape-command># )
```

The `from <coordinate-pair>` parameter represents the starting point for the first shape command, and `<shape-command>` defines one one or more shape commands, which are similar to the [SVG path commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands).

## Description

> When creating a shape, the reference box is defined by each property that uses `<basic-shape>` values. The coordinate system for the shape has its origin at the top-left corner of the reference box, with the x-axis running to the right and the y-axis running downwards. All the lengths expressed in percentages are resolved from the used dimensions of the reference box.

Author: Good catch, thanks!
About "element's margin box", I have been using "element's reference box", but I'll defer to your expertise here

> The `from <coordinate-pair>` parameter represents the starting point for the first shape command, and `<shape-command>` defines one one or more shape commands, which are similar to the [SVG path commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands).

Author: Browser compact for both `path()` https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/path#browser_compatibility and `shape-outside` https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/shape-outside#browser_compatibility indicate that `path()` is not supported in `shape-outside`. I also do not see `path()` working in `shape-outside` now that you mention it. 

I've added some notes to the issue you opened for `path()`: https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/33593#issuecomment-2135771704

> The default reference box is the `margin-box`, as demonstrated in the below image which shows a circle created using `shape-outside: circle(50%)`. The shape is being defined with reference to the margin box.

Author: I think the reference box default can be changed, for example by specifying [`<geometry-box>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/clip-path#geometry-box) in `clip-path` and [`<coord-box>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/offset-path#offset-path) in `offset-path`

> When creating a shape, the reference box is defined by the element that uses `<basic-shape>` values. The coordinate system for the shape has its origin at the top-left corner of the element's margin box by default, with the x-axis running to the right and the y-axis running downwards. All the lengths expressed in percentages are resolved from the dimensions of the reference box.

Author: I was going through the [basic shape functions spec](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-shapes/#basic-shape-functions) again and this caught my attention: "the reference box is defined by each property that uses `<basic-shape>` values.". On second thoughts, this makes sense because the basic shape function is used as a value of a property and not directly by the element itself. The property (`clip-path` or `offset-path` for example) can define the reference box to be used. The `<basic-shape>` function will then work within that reference box.
So reverting the "element" to "property" here.
```suggestion
When creating a shape, the reference box is defined by the property that uses `<basic-shape>` values. The coordinate system for the shape has its origin at the top-left corner of the element's margin box by default, with the x-axis running to the right and the y-axis running downwards. All the lengths expressed in percentages are resolved from the dimensions of the reference box.
```

> ![An image showing a circle inspected with the Firefox DevTools Shape Inspector. The different parts of the box model are highlighted.](shapes-reference-box.png)

Reviewer: sighted users may not know that's a dev tools view in line 126. we should add that, since otherwise what the image is demonstrating wont be clear to those who don't see the alt.

Author: Good point. Updating line 126 content to:

> The default reference box is the [`margin-box`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/box-edge#margin-box), as demonstrated in the image below. The image shows a circle created using `shape-outside: circle(50%)` and inspected using a browser's Developer Tools, highlighting the different parts of the box model. The shape here is defined with reference to the margin-box.

> The default reference box is the [`margin-box`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/box-edge#margin-box), as demonstrated in the image below. The image shows a circle created using `shape-outside: circle(50%)` and inspected using a browser's Developer Tools, highlighting the different parts of the box model. The shape here is defined with reference to the margin-box.

Author: Fixed in https://pr33783.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape#description

> ### Computed values of basic shapes

Author: Please see if this rewrite helps: https://pr33783.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape#computed_values_of_basic_shapes

>     The optional `<fill-rule>` represents the {{SVGAttr("fill-rule")}} used to determine the interior of the path. Possible values are `nonzero` and `evenodd`. Default value when omitted is `nonzero`.

Author: Done. Retained the last line though about the default value when parameter is omitted.

### Interpolation of basic shapes

> When animating from one `<basic-shape>` to another, the {{Glossary("interpolation")}} rules listed below are followed. For any interpolation to happen between two shapes, both must use the same reference box. The values between two `<basic-shape>` functions interpolate based on their computed values, forming a list. The values in the list are interpolated as {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. If the values are not one of those data types but are identical between the two interpolating basic shape functions, such as `nonzero`, those values also interpolate.

Author: Switched the position of 2nd and 3rd sentences for flow. Updated as:

> When animating between two `<basic-shape>` functions, the {{Glossary("interpolation")}} rules listed below are followed. The parameter values of each `<basic-shape>` function form a list. For interpolation to occur between two shapes, both shapes must use the same reference box and the number and type of values in both `<basic-shape>` lists must match.
> 
> Each value in the lists of the two `<basic-shape>` functions is interpolated based on its computed value as a {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. Interpolation can still occur if the values are not one of those data types but are identical between the two interpolating basic shape functions, such as `nonzero`.

> When animating from one `<basic-shape>` to another, the {{Glossary("interpolation")}} rules listed below are followed. For any interpolation to happen between two shapes, both must use the same reference box. The values between two `<basic-shape>` functions interpolate based on their computed values, forming a list. The values in the list are interpolated as {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. If the values are not one of those data types but are identical between the two interpolating basic shape functions, such as `nonzero`, those values also interpolate.

Author: Updated in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33783

> When animating from one `<basic-shape>` to another, the {{Glossary("interpolation")}} rules listed below are followed. For any interpolation to happen between two shapes, both must use the same reference box. The values between two `<basic-shape>` functions interpolate based on their computed values, forming a simple list. The list values are interpolated as {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. If the list values are not one of those types but are identical (such as `nonzero` in the same position in both `basic-shape` functions), those values also interpolate.

Reviewer: how would they use two different reference boxes?

unclear what a "simple list" is. Maybe a parameter list? Also, avoid the use of "simple"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When animating from one `<basic-shape>` to another, the {{Glossary("interpolation")}} rules listed below are followed. For any interpolation to happen between two shapes, both must use the same reference box. The values between two `<basic-shape>` functions interpolate based on their computed values, forming a simple list. The list values are interpolated as {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. For parameter values outside of those data types, if the value is the same in all the basic shape functions, such as `nonzero` in both the from and to `basic-shape` functions, those values also interpolate.
```
The fill-rule or round only occurs once per shape, so i don't think it has to be in the same spot.

Author: > how would they use two different reference boxes?

we say this in text: "For any interpolation to happen between two shapes, both must use the same reference box."

> avoid the use of "simple"

Done

> i don't think it has to be in the same spot.

Actually, `<fill-rule>` in any other position will invalidate the property. So it is kind of implicit that `nonzero` or `evenodd`, if present in the from and to shapes, will be in the same position.

The updated version looks like this:

> When animating from one `<basic-shape>` to another, the {{Glossary("interpolation")}} rules listed below are followed. For any interpolation to happen between two shapes, both must use the same reference box. The values between two `<basic-shape>` functions interpolate based on their computed values, forming a list. The values in the list are interpolated as {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. If the values are not one of those data types but are identical between the two interpolating basic shape functions, such as `nonzero`, those values also interpolate.

> - **Both shapes are of type `ellipse()` or type `circle()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value if their radii are specified as {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} (rather than keywords such as `closest-side` or `farthest-side`).

Reviewer: * we used "length" or "percentage", not "length-percentage" in the definitions, so should probably stick to two separate terms here too.
* maybe note interpolated as ellipse if one of each, with the circle radius duplicated to create an ellipse.

Author: > we used "length" or "percentage", not "length-percentage" in the definitions, so should probably stick to two separate terms here too.

Done

> maybe note interpolated as ellipse if one of each, with the circle radius duplicated to create an ellipse.

Both have to be the same type. `circle()` and `ellipse()` are not interpolated.

- **Both shapes are of type `inset()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value.

> - **Both shapes are of type `polygon()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value, including the vertices (specified as x/y coordinate pairs), if they have the same number of vertices and use the same `<fill-rule>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Both shapes are of type `polygon()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value, specified as x/y coordinate pairs, if they have the same number of comma-separated pairs and use the same `<fill-rule>`.
```

Author: Since the corresponding values include both fill-rule and coordinate pairs, updating this to:

> - **Both shapes are of type `polygon()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value if they use the same `<fill-rule>` and have the same number of comma-separated coordinate pairs.

Change the order of fill-rule and coordinate pairs and removed "vertices" as suggested

- **Both shapes are of type `path()`**: Interpolation is applied to each parameter as a {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} if the path strings in both the shapes match the number, type, and sequence of [path data commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands).

> - **Both shapes are of type `shape()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value if they have the identical command keyword and use the same `<by-to>` keyword. If `shape()` is used in the {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property, the two shapes interpolate if they also have the same `<fill-rule>`.

Author: Instead of adding this to the interpolation section, I've added this sentence to the syntax section:

> - **Both shapes are of type `shape()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value if they have the identical command keyword and use the same `<by-to>` keyword. If `shape()` is used in the {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property, the two shapes interpolate if they also have the same `<fill-rule>`.

Author: Oh, you do have that as your next suggestion

> - **Both shapes are of type `shape()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value if they have the identical command keyword and use the same `<by-to>` keyword. If `shape()` is used in the {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property, the two shapes interpolate if they also have the same `<fill-rule>`.

Reviewer: `d` too?

Author: `shape()` to `shape()` will interpolate only if they use the same commands, same `by` or `to` keyword, (and the same fill rule in case of `clip-path`). The first parameter `from <coordinate-pair>` is anyway mandatory.

This is demo'ed at https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/4a0aeb02d32180d424668776162afc6f85d47d6f/css/css-masking/animations/clip-path-interpolation-shape.html#L86

And a negative test can be seen at https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/4a0aeb02d32180d424668776162afc6f85d47d6f/css/css-masking/animations/clip-path-interpolation-shape.html#L80.

### Interpolation of basic shapes

> When animating between one `<basic-shape>` and another, the rules below are applied. The values in the `<basic-shape>` functions {{Glossary("interpolation", "interpolate")}} as a simple list. The list values interpolate as {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. If list values are not one of those types but are identical, those values do interpolate.

Author: - I've updated the text slightly to say ("from one...to another" instead of "between" and "by computed value" instead of "as a simple list"):

> When animating from one `<basic-shape>` to another, the rules listed below are applied. The values in the `<basic-shape>` functions {{Glossary("interpolation", "interpolate")}} by computed value as a simple list. The list values interpolate as {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. If list values are not one of those types but are identical, those values do interpolate.

Source: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-shapes-1/#basic-shape-interpolation

- About `calc()`, I'll need to check before I remove it. It is present in the interpolation for the newest `shape()` function: [wpt code for clip-path-interpolation-shape](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/css/css-masking/animations/clip-path-interpolation-shape.html#L56-L66)

- Let me get back on these changes after I've checked with the Firefox engineer.

> When animating between one `<basic-shape>` and another, the rules below are applied. The values in the `<basic-shape>` functions {{Glossary("interpolation", "interpolate")}} as a simple list. The list values interpolate as {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}}, {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or {{cssxref("calc", "calc()")}} where possible. If list values are not one of those types but are identical, those values do interpolate.

Author: Update after some clarifications from the engineer: I've added `<number>` and `<angle>` to the list.
Keeping `<calc>` around since it is not incorrect (and mentioned in the spec) and `<length-percentage>` accept `<calc>`. If values in both shapes are a combination of `<length>` and `<percentage>`, they are interpolated as `calc()`.

- Both shapes must use the same reference box.

> - If the two shapes are of the same type, namely `ellipse()` and `circle()` and if their radii do not use the `closest-side` or `farthest-side` keywords, interpolation is applied between each value in the shape functions.

Author: Updated to:

> - If the two shapes are of the same type, specifically `ellipse()` and `circle()`, and their radii do not use the `closest-side` or `farthest-side` keywords, then interpolation is applied between each corresponding value in those shape functions.

Does this work?

> - If the two shapes are of the same type, namely `ellipse()` and `circle()` and if their radii do not use the `closest-side` or `farthest-side` keywords, interpolation is applied between each value in the shape functions.

Author: The two shapes need to be the same. Addressed in previous comment.

- If both shapes are of type `inset()`, interpolation is applied between each value in the shape functions.

> - If both shapes are of type `polygon()`, and both polygons have the same number of vertices and use the same `<fill-rule>`, interpolation is applied between each value in the shape functions.

Author: Updated this to (also changing the style of the list items slightly to aid in scanning the list visually):

> - Both shapes are of type `polygon()`: If they have the same number of vertices (specified as x/y coordinate pairs) and use the same `<fill-rule>`, then interpolation is applied between each corresponding value, including the coordinate pairs.

> - If both shapes are of type `path()`, and both path strings have the same number and types of path data commands and in the same order, each path data command is interpolated as a real number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If both shapes are of type `path()`, and both path strings have the same number and types of [path data commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands) in the same order, each path data command parameter is interpolated as a real number.
```
the commands are the letters. The parameters are the numbers.

Side note: should we move https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/path to be at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/path?

Author: - Updating it to:

> - **Both shapes are of type `path()`**: If the path strings in both have the same number and type of [path data commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands) in the same sequence, then each parameter of the path data command is interpolated as a real number.

- Side note
> should we move https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/path to be at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/path?

Yes, thanks for saying this! I have been thinking the same. It is confusing to not have it under `<basic-shape>`. Also, the [spec](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-shapes-1/#supported-basic-shapes) lists each `<basic-shape>` function as a type; so, for example, the `inset()` function is really a parameter in the `<inset()>` type:

```
<inset()> = inset( <length-percentage>{1,4} [ round <'border-radius'> ]?)
```

I need to make these changes as well. I'll push out these changes shortly.

Author: Moved path() under basic-shape in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33446/commits/a50e5bd496a46d2b1293ad1c364364fb73b0f4b1

> - If the two shapes are of type `shape()` and `path()` and have matching path data commands in length and order, the interpolated value is a `path()` function if both starting and ending values are `path()` functions; otherwise, it's treated as a `shape()` function. The interpolated value must represent the same list of path data commands, with numerical components interpolated between the corresponding components of the starting and ending list.
> - If both shapes are of type `shape()`, the shape commands are considered the same if they share the identical command keyword and `<by-to>` parameters; for `<curve-command>` and `<smooth-command>`, the number of control points must match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If both shapes are of type `shape()`, the shape commands are considered the same if they share the identical [shape command](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/shape#shape-command) keywords and the same `by` and `to` parameters, in the same order. For `<curve-command>` and `<smooth-command>`, the number of control points must match.
- If one shape is of type `shape()` and the other is of type `path()` and both have matching path data commands in length and order, the shapes are interpolated as a `path()` function if both starting and ending values are `path()` functions; otherwise, they are interpolated as a `shape()` function. The interpolated value must represent the same list of path data commands, with numerical components interpolated between the corresponding components of the starting and ending list.

```
This is the start of the suggestion:
* reverse the order so 2 shapes comes before 1 shape and 1 path.
* update the text per the suggestion so it's clearer that we're talking about one of each.
* The text "The interpolated value must represent the same list of path data commands, with numerical components interpolated between the corresponding components of the starting and ending list." sounds like a directive to the browser vendor. Not sure it needs to be included, but if it does, rework it for what web developers need to know when animating between a shape and path.

Author: > reverse the order so 2 shapes comes before 1 shape and 1 path.

Agree, done

> update the text per the suggestion so it's clearer that we're talking about one of each.

Done

> rework it for what web developers need to know when animating between a shape and path

Updating it to:

> - **One shape is of type `path()` and the other is of type `shape()`**: Interpolation is applied between each corresponding value if the list of path data commands is identical in number as well as sequence. The interpolated shape is a `shape()` function, maintaining the same list of path data commands.

> - If both shapes of type `shape()` with an `<arc-command>` have different `<arc-sweep>` between their starting and ending lists, then the interpolated result uses `cw` for any progress value between `0` and `1`. If the shapes have different `<arc-size>` keywords, then the interpolated result uses `large` for any progress value between `0` and `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If two `shape()` functions each have an `<arc-command>` with different `<arc-sweep>` directions, then the interpolated result goes clockwise, using the `cw` direction. If the shapes have different `<arc-size>` keywords, then the size is interpolated using the `large` value.
```
if all progress values are between 0 and 1, we can omit that part. The shape() page does not include the word 'progress'. I don't know what a progress value is exactly. Tried to make a suggestion that readers can understand on first read without going to the shape() page.

Author: This is great, thanks!

> - In all other cases, no interpolation occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In all other cases, no interpolation occurs and the animation is discrete.
```
